source/rider.html.md, before:

---
title: Rider
---

# Aidan Feldman's Rider for Public Speaking

Please review the considerations below to make sure we have a great, inclusive event. None of the requirements have direct costs, and therefore should be achievable by all events. Contact me if you have any questions or concerns. I'm happy to help work through them!

## Short version

- My content is mine, but it will be shared broadly
- Be accessible to:
  - People with motor and sensory disabilities
  - Parents with young children
  - Speakers and attendees with low income
- Have:
  - A Code of Conduct
  - A diverse set of speakers

## Long version

### Licensing

- **My materials are licensed [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)**, except where otherwise noted.
- I own and retain the rights to all materials related to my presentation, including official recordings. I grant you license to use, modify, and redistribute them.

### Setup and AV

- **Video**: **USB-C** preferred. Please notify if HDMI, VGA or DVI - I can bring adapters.
- **Power**: Preferred. Please notify if a [three-prong American outlet](https://www.iec.ch/worldplugs/typeB.htm) will not be available - I can bring an adapter.
- **Wi-fi**: Preferred. Please notify if not available.

### Accessibility

- Ensure **all official event venues are accessible** to people with mobility issues, including people who use wheelchairs. Please document where that's not possible and make that documentation readily available to attendees.
- Reserve some **seating in the front rows** for people with vision impairments.

### Safety

- Have a **[Code of Conduct](https://www.ashedryden.com/blog/codes-of-conduct-101-faq)** with clear reporting and enforcement procedures.
- If providing or otherwise facilitating meals, be responsive to people with **dietary restrictions**.

### Representation

- **No all-male or all-white panels** at the entire event.
- Minimum **one-third of speakers must be people of color, LGBTQIA+, or people with a disability**.

## Above and beyond

While not strictly required by this rider, the following are strongly encouraged:

- Provide **captioning** for the audience (for at least one track, if there are multiple).
- If a paid event, run a **financial aid**, scholarship, opportunity grant, or similar program for attendees.
- Offer **childcare and nursing room(s)** for parents of young children.
- **Travel, meals, and lodging** must be offered for all out-of-town speakers. (No [\#PayToSpeak](https://paytospeak.org/).)

---

## Additional information

This document is licensed [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Inspirations:

- [Frances McDormand](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/03/05/590867132/whats-an-inclusion-rider-here-s-the-story-behind-frances-mcdormand-s-closing-wor)
- [Josh Simmons](https://github.com/joshsimmons/inclusion-rider)
- [Richard Bradshaw](https://thefriendlytester.co.uk/speaker-rider/)

Commit message:

clarify rider requirements that only apply to in-person

source/rider.html.md, after:

---
title: Rider
---

# Aidan Feldman's Rider for Public Speaking

Please review the considerations below to make sure we have a great, inclusive event. None of the requirements have direct costs, and therefore should be achievable by all events. Contact me if you have any questions or concerns. I'm happy to help work through them!

## Short version

- My content is mine, but it will be shared broadly
- Be accessible to:
  - People with motor and sensory disabilities
  - Parents with young children
  - Speakers and attendees with low income
- Have:
  - A Code of Conduct
  - A diverse set of speakers

## Long version

### Licensing

- **My materials are licensed [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)**, except where otherwise noted.
- I own and retain the rights to all materials related to my presentation, including official recordings. I grant you license to use, modify, and redistribute them.

### Setup and AV

If in-person,

- **Video**: **USB-C** preferred. Please notify if HDMI, VGA or DVI - I can bring adapters.
- **Power**: Preferred. Please notify if a [three-prong American outlet](https://www.iec.ch/worldplugs/typeB.htm) will not be available - I can bring an adapter.
- **Wi-fi**: Preferred. Please notify if not available.

### Accessibility

If in-person,

- Ensure **all official event venues are accessible** to people with mobility issues, including people who use wheelchairs. Please document where that's not possible and make that documentation readily available to attendees.
- Reserve some **seating in the front rows** for people with vision impairments.

### Safety

- Have a **[Code of Conduct](https://www.ashedryden.com/blog/codes-of-conduct-101-faq)** with clear reporting and enforcement procedures.
- If providing or otherwise facilitating meals, be responsive to people with **dietary restrictions**.

### Representation

- **No all-male or all-white panels** at the entire event.
- Minimum **one-third of speakers must be people of color, LGBTQIA+, or people with a disability**.

## Above and beyond

While not strictly required by this rider, the following are strongly encouraged:

- Provide **captioning** for the audience (for at least one track, if there are multiple).
- If a paid event, run a **financial aid**, scholarship, opportunity grant, or similar program for attendees.

If in-person,

- Offer **childcare and nursing room(s)** for parents of young children.
- **Travel, meals, and lodging** must be offered for all out-of-town speakers. (No [\#PayToSpeak](https://paytospeak.org/).)

---

## Additional information

This document is licensed [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Inspirations:

- [Frances McDormand](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/03/05/590867132/whats-an-inclusion-rider-here-s-the-story-behind-frances-mcdormand-s-closing-wor)
- [Josh Simmons](https://github.com/joshsimmons/inclusion-rider)
- [Richard Bradshaw](https://thefriendlytester.co.uk/speaker-rider/)
